---
title: "usage"
bg: '#63BD2F'
color: white
fa-icon: plug
---

# Installation
There are two basic ways to install Molecular Blender, depending on whether you
want to use the optional cython enhanced isosurface routines (highly recommended,
if you're drawing isosurfaces at all).

## Using setup.py (cython compatible)
The most robust way to install is to use the included `setup.py`:

    cd /path/to/molecular/blender/repo
    python3 setup.py build
    python3 setup.py link

This will build the cython extensions to the code and then create symlinks to all
the versions of blender found in the normal blender install directories (only tested on macOS).
For this to work, it's recommended to use the same version of python
that blender bundles and that you have cython installed.
The same setup can be used to export a build:

    python3 setup.py build
    python3 setup.py export

This will create a zip file that should be compatible with the add-on installation
machinery of blender itself.

### Direct symlink (no cython)
If you are okay with skipping sython, you can directly symlink from the python
package to the blender scripts directory. The non-cython version has all the same
functionality as the cython version, but may be significantly slower for certain
tasks (cython version is roughly 100 times faster at drawing orbitals from molden
files).

    ln -s /path/to/molecular/blender/repo/molecular_blender /path/to/blender/scripts/addons/

and then it should appear in the list of Import-Export addons that can be
activated like any other addon.

On Mac OS X, the path for a user supplied addon is

    /Users/<username>/Library/Application\ Support/Blender/<version>/scripts/addons

where `<username>` and `<version>` should be replaced with your username and the
Blender version you are using.
